# Phishing-Website-Detection
People's preferences are shifting from traditional shopping to electronic commerce as their use of the internet grows. Instead of robbing banks and stores, criminals now use cyber tricks to find their victims by utilizing the anonymous internet framework. Hackers are now employing new techniques such as phishing to deceive victims by using a fake website to gather sensitive information. Phishing websites appear to be similar to legitimate ones, making it difficult to distinguish between them. Phishing is a type of cybercrime that involves impersonating a legitimate website in order to trick users into revealing personal information such as usernames, passwords, account numbers, and so on. Phishing frauds are one of the commonly spread cyber attacks today. To identify phishing URLs, machine learning models were used. These algorithms assess a URL based on a feature or group of characteristics derived from it. This project explains how to use trained machine learning models to identify phishing websites. It compares and contrasts machine learning algorithms for analyzing and classifying phishing versus authentic websites. The different models under consideration are Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Support Vector Machines (SVM), K Nearest Neighbors, Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) and ensemble techniques like Bagging, Boosting and Stacking. In Bagging we have used Random Forest and in Boosting we have used XGBoost, CatBoost and LightGBM. After training the models with best hyper parameters and evaluating them on test data, Random Forest yielded the best performance.
